>> Will Sentance: So, if you're
finding this all very trivial so far,
we are building out here the foundations
that will allow us to implement gradient
descent in a neural network to make
predictions about classifying images.
We'll be able to, by the end of
the session today, be able to
speak to pre-processing our data to ensure
it has appropriate dimensionality for
our production model to
ensure accurate inference.
Okay, that sounds pretty fancy.
Thumbs if that sounds fancy.
That's gonna be so, okay,
Joe doesn't think that sounds fancy.
Maybe it doesn't, maybe you're all so
experienced with this.
But that should hopefully be the kinda
language you're able to speak to by
the end of this session.
So if you're finding this rather trite,
or maybe you're not,
certainly I could imagine either way,
know that these are the foundations for
all of those fancy things to come.
So let's get some names on
some of these things so
that before we introduce how this links
to the domain of machine learning,
let's get some names on these things.
Maria, no, well, people,
raise your hand if you have
an idea what this converter might
be called as a general term.
Joe, Ben, raise your hand if you know
what a converter's fancy name is.
>> Kayla: Model.
>> Will Sentance: Model, who said that?
Well done, Kayla.
Exactly, model, that's it,
the set of rules to convert
our data into our background
data into the associated label.
This is a model, this is it.
What type of model is this
with a bunch of boundaries,
maximums.and minimums, above and below?
Anyone know what type
of model that's called?
It could be called a classifier,
a prediction.
It's actually a particular type
of model called a decision tree,
and you could say, wow,
it's a fairly trivial model.
I say trivial in that it's quite like,
what is it?
Bunch of if else statements, right?
And essentially, that is what you
can think of a decision tree,
except that by being so,
quote, trivial, and again,
I'm not saying trivial in a bad way,
that's a good thing.
It's incredibly good for
interpretation, and
especially when you're deciding whether
to give somebody their door dash refund,
or if their insurance claim is fraudulent.
Even more high sensitive,
especially when you're deciding whether
someone's insurance claim is fraudulent.
You better have the ability
to explain to the compliance
division in your company why
you gave one person the refund,
gave one person the payout and
another not.
And we're gonna see that many models would
dream of having the interpretability.
That is to say we could look at each rule
and go, okay, so the reason this person
did is they got years longer than that,
account spend less than or
dollar spend less than that,
a number of accounts in the AP, that.
So that when head of compliance goes,
excuse me, why have we got this
pattern of people not getting refunds?
It:s possible to say, well, let me just
show you, for each individual person, why.
So for each model,
there are gonna be trade-offs,
back to Ben's point, of benefits and
costs associated with a given model,
but this is a model a decision tree.
What are the names of the numbers
that are part that go into a model?
The numbers or the rules that we may or
may not have different values for,
which is not a million miles away
from the term we use in functions?
What are the names of the values,
Kayla, that go into a models.
>> Kayla: Arguments?
>> Will Sentance: Or the one,
I guess, yeah, it's not.
What's the other one we used
a bit before you put the data in?
Parameters, exactly, so how many
parameters, Kayla, do we have here?
Would you say?
>> Kayla: Four.
>> Will Sentance: Spot on,
got four parameters,
four things that we are considering,
four numbers
associated with our converter,
with our model.
Okay, how many input data
values do we have, Paul?
>> Speaker 3: Three or four.
>> Will Sentance: Three, I'd say three.
I guess there's a meta one,
right, of how many we have,
but that's interesting, actually.
But we have here 3, and
what do we call these things, people?
What do we call these input values?
Features, soot on,
three features, spot on from Ben.
Was it Ben or Joe?
Yes, three features.
Now, by the way, in practice,
in a decision tree, very rarely would we
have a multi-input parameter,
one that's checking multiple things.
Typically, a decision tree will go,
do this, left or right.
And decision tree is if years
greater than 0.9 go towards refund,
if dollars less than 200 go
towards refund, if accounts less
than 3 go towards refund,
it really does split them out one by one.
But how do we go about
identifying these boundaries?
Well, in machine learning,
the machine, the computer,
tries different values here.
Our boundaries or
combinations of our boundaries tries
different combination of our
boundaries and assesses how many for
different combinations of our sample
convert their background info
to the label given by a person,
the customer service rep, as possible.
There are so
many combinations of parameter values.
Again, how many parameters we have here,
Kayla?
>> Kayla: Four.
>> Will Sentance: Four, so
many combination proud values to try
before the machine has learned the best
set, the set that maximizes the number
of correct conversions for the sample.
In a decision tree, the technique that's
used actually is check the first one,
try different values for it,
and see how many convert.
Check the next one, and
we'll see in neural networks,
the technique is using some equal grading
percent, but we need back propagation.
We need a bunch of techniques.
Okay, here's the fun thing,
people, here's some math.
Okay, say, we just take the first three
parameters, let's say we just have three
parameters, okay, how many possible
values would we want to check for each?
Give me, I don't know, we tried one.
Let's say our sum was 100,000.
Let's say we're not gonna
try every dollar value.
We don't think it makes much
difference whether it's 199,198, 197.
We're just gonna do tens maybe.
And then for these, maybe do this in 0.1,
that's about a month, right?
So in months, and then accounts on IP,
maybe we check 1 through 30,
and we know that high ones
are really important,
how many possible values might
we wanna check for years?
Just give me a rough number,
how many possible values.
If not number of years, but possible
numbers to check if we're gonna go 0.1,
0.2.
How many might wanna check, Maria?
>> Maria: Ten.
>> Will Sentance: Ten, we don't
have to go between 0 and 1, right?
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and
suppose we do it in 0.1 increments,
what do you think maybe?
Let's say 50,
because that's the number I learned.
50, and then for this,
let's say 50 as well.
So we go in like, I don't know, 10, 20,
30, 40, up to 500 increments of 10.
That'd be 50 values right to check,
so that'd be 50.
And let's just say we go for 50 on this.
Does anyone know the math we
do to calculate what the total
number of different combinations of
parameter values we need to check for
those three, where we have 50 possible
values would be knowing that we
already tweaked one by this to
make it work for a sample of four?
So we could have any possible combination
of those 50 values be the ones that
convert the maximum number of our sample.
There's 100,000 inputs to our sample,
it could be that it's, I don't know,
1.4 years, $120, and accounts on
IP 17 that converts the maximum
background info to the historic decision,
and that maximizes conversion.
And assuming the sample represents
a population, there's your best converter.
Okay, let's say we had 10
things you wanna check, and
it would be 50 to the power of 10.
That's big, how big is that?
Very big, how big is that?
[LAUGH] I don't know this now,
anyone know?
So it's 9 with 16 0s, and
that is 9 quadrillion, is that correct?
I think that's 9 quadrillion maybe,
or is that 0 trillion?
That's 9 quadrillion,
that's a lot to check.
Okay, thank goodness, it's a lot to check.
That's a lot to check.
If we had 10 different parameters,
each we wanna check 50 and
all the combinations of it.
The number we'd have to check, and
then for every single one of them, run our
entire sample through and see which
converts the most, how many converts.
Then try slightly tweaking for the other.
Okay, let's write it so everyone gets
to see, 8, no, should I write it?
No, I'm not writing 9 quadrillion.
9, here we go.
That's six, is this good content,
people, everyone together?
Yes, I mean, there's one more than that,
that's a lot.
We don't have to check all of those,
right, people, not a chance.
Well, so let's have a look,
there's a lot to check.
The discipline of machine learning and
artificial intelligence has three major
buckets, one, techniques and tools for
finding the best converter, the model.
Here, it's a decision tree, but
there are so many to choose from,
support vector machines,
different types of regressions, and
the one that's really changed the game,
neural networks.
There are so
many approaches to neural networks.
This all comes down to finding the best
converter that converts our sample,
captures the pattern in our sample,
converts our sample data.
Ben's background info, Joe's, Kayla's,
Maria's, have I said that enough times,
into the respective decision
whether to give a refund or not.
And there might be a ton of data what
is gonna convert that technical tool we
use to find that best converter.
Two, ways, techniques and
tools, to minimize the time and
effort it takes to get
the converters details,
the model parameters,
the ones that work for our sample.
It is computationally profoundly
demanding to check them all.
>> Will Sentance: So
we have to find shortcuts, optimizations.
In a decision tree, the optimization is,
do not try them all in
combination with each other.
Just try the first one and
see which boundary for
the first one works best for the sample.
Then if you're happy with it,
it's called a greedy algorithm,
gets it right at every stage.
If you're happy with it, move to the next
one, find the best boundary there for
your sample.
If you're happy, move it to the next one,
and you use what's called a purity metric,
a genie purity.
We're not here to learn
decision trees inside out, but
rather that there are techniques for
every single model to get to
the optimal conversion set of
parameters for your sample.
And that's a huge part of machine
learning of artificial intelligence,
because even with incredible optimization
techniques like gradient descendant,
backpropagation, it is still
unprecedented amount of compute power
that's needed to do so for, for
example, a large language model.
Final bucket of work,
all of this conversion, magic or
not magic, set of rules that converts
our sample is only interesting,
cuz if we capture how to
convert our sample from its
background info to its respective label,
well,
we can use that on our population,
future refund requests.
Where we do not have the decision,
we do not have the label,
we have missing data, and
we can try to predict.
We can only do that if the sample is
representative of the population.
Ensuring that is the case
is absolutely vital.
And that ties to being aligned
with our goals and values,
determining what our population even is,
what our sample is.
Suppose that the customer service
reps were not very good at labeling,
refund or not, they maybe even
had implicit or explicit, or
no knowledge at all of it biases in
whether they decided to refund or not.
They base it on things that maybe
the company doesn't wanna be incorporated,
zip code,
some things that might even be illegal.
You can look at that very much as, well,
wait, that means our sample is not
actually truly representative of our true
patterns of the population as a whole.
If we're getting people being
determined no refund for
reasons that are specific to the person
who labeled the refund request.
In other words, by labeled here,
I mean, said no refund,
sorry, then that's not
reflective of the population.
That pattern there is
associating the wrong background
information with don't give a refund.
So the absolutely crucial, as important
as finding the right converter,
as important as working out how to
minimize the time it gets to takes to get
the details of it or the right model.
Working out the parameters is
ensuring that the sample and
population reflect each other.
That the sample data is accurate and
is aligned with the values and
goals of the organization.
And in practice, we'll see everything we
do in prediction is an extension of this.
A sample of data with its labels or
patterns, and a population from which
we wanna make a prediction based on
the insights we have on the sample.
So when you have models that developed
their parameters to make predictions for,
let's say, we'll see later,
image generation.
Gemini from Google's image
generation tool made
predictions about soldiers
from the 1940s in Germany
that did not mirror historical
accuracy by any means.
What is the failure there?
Well, the failure is to
define population and sample.
If you just want to be able to generate,
as we'll see later on,
any possible set of pixels, maybe those
are pixels that could be generated.
In this case, the goal was generate and
the population you
wanna capture is all possible
historically accurate.
Pixel combinations, images, then it's
a failure of that model development.
And that final piece of alignment,
fighting bias or misalignment,
and of course, overfitting, we saw here
we might have got a bit too perfect for
our sample, we then tried to validate it.
If our sample does not reflect our
population as a whole, we have a problem.